Hey welcome back!
So, in order to build our game to Android, which is what we're
going to be doing next, you're going to need Android Studio
installed on your machine. So,
in this video we're going to download and install Android Studio,
show you how to solve or at least talk about how to solve some
common issues, and then just check that it loads.
So, the place to go to get it is developer
.android.com/sdk like
this. developer.android.com/sdk
That's the software development kit. That will take
you to this page here, where you'll be able to download
Android Studio for your Mac or PC. I suggest
you start that downloading now. It's over 200
Megabytes, it may as well be downloading while I continue to talk.
So, if you click into System
Requirements, while it's downloading, you'll see that if you're on Windows
what you're going to need. I wouldn't worry too much about these
performance related requirements, because Unity
will be driving the studio for you.
The bit that really is important is that you need the Java Development
Kit Version 7 installed. So,
you can just do a Google search for: install java
JDK
JDK. It's the Java Development Kit
and you'll get it from Oracle, and you actually want
Version 7, you don't want Version 8. If you use
Version 8 then Android Studio will have problems, at the moment.
That may change in the future, but for now it needs Version 7.
So, you look on Oracle's page here and then you go and
find Version 7, OK
down here, of the Java Development Kit. That's what you need.
Fantastic! So you get JDK installed
but if you're on a Mac it's a very similar thing, but you need JDK
7 but you need the Java Runtime Environment
6. So again, you just do a search for: "download
java JRM.
JRE rather, Java
Runtime Environment. That's all confusing J
RE, JDK. And then, you need to make sure
that you've got the right version of that installed.
It's worth just trying
running Android Studio, without changing anything about
your Java, by the way. It may just work, so when it's
downloaded, you might want to try just running the Android Studio
Install and see if it works. If you start to get errors
you need to work out why. I would do a Google search
for the error you're getting, and depending on which platform you're on
you're either going to have to upgrade your versions of Java
JDK, the Development Kit, or the Runtime Environment
or possibly downgrade it. If you need to
downgrade your version of JDK, JRE, then
just go on to Google and say: "uninstall
java pc".
for example, and you'll get documents like
this from Java itself,
and you could do the same thing for Mac.
And again, you'll get a document where you can go in and it'll explain, for both
platforms, how to uninstall and then reinstall over the
top. So, they're the common gotchas to
do with the version of Java, otherwise it's pretty plain sailing.
Once you have finished installing it, I want you to just
open Android Studio.
You don't need to know anything about how Android Studio works,
we just need to make sure that it will open.
OK, and you'll get something like this, come up
on your screen. Fairly ugly studio I think.
If it doesn't come up immediately like this, then
that's fine. You may end up with some project wizards,
and you might think, well what do I put in all  of these boxes? Don't
worry, just click Next, Next, Next, Finish. If you've got
this far, you've done it. You just want
the Android Studio running on your machine. You can actually
cancel any of these builds and just quit out of it.
We just need to know that it runs. Unity
will be driving it for us, and we don't need to know anything about
how Android Studio works. Alright, we just need to get it
working on your machine. So, that's your
challenge, for this video basically, is to get it working on your machine.
I want you to download from developer.com
android.com/sdk Be ready to install
or uninstall Java, as we discussed. If you're getting errors
for any reason, search for the exact error message. Remember, Google is
your friend. It'll be worth it in the end.
I won't be showing, after this, exactly how to install
and uninstall Java on all platforms,
because that's very time consuming, and we've got Windows and PC
to think about. And I'm confident that you can sort it out yourself,
especially with a little bit of Google-ing or maybe in the discussions,
against this video. So go ahead, just get Android Studio
running. Don't spend any time fiddling around with Android Studio,
because we're not going to be using it. It just needs to be there, for
Unity to drive. Good luck and see you soon!